README.md, before:

# id-to-uuid

Easily migrate from an auto incremented integer id to a [uuid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) in a project using [DoctrineMigrationsBundle](https://github.com/doctrine/DoctrineMigrationsBundle).
Autodetect your foreign keys and update them. Supported databases: **MySQL, Postgres**.

## Installation

```
composer require cap-collectif/id-to-uuid
# install for postgres support
composer require ramsey/uuid
```

## Usage

1. Update your `id` column from `integer` to `guid`:

```diff
# User.orm.xml
<entity name="AppBundle\Entity\User" table="user">
---    <id name="id" column="id" type="integer">
---        <generator strategy="AUTO" />
+++    <id name="id" column="id" type="guid">
+++        <generator strategy="UUID" />
    </id>
 #...
</entity>
```

Alternatively you can use [uuid-doctrine](https://github.com/ramsey/uuid-doctrine) to add `uuid` type support.
```diff
<id name="id" type="uuid" />
```

2. Add a new migration:

```php
// app/DoctrineMigrations/VersionXYZ.php
<?php

namespace Application\Migrations;

use Doctrine\DBAL\Schema\Schema;
use CapCollectif\IdToUuid\IdToUuidMigration;

class VersionXYZ extends IdToUuidMigration //or PostgresIdToUuidMigration
{
    public function postUp(Schema $schema): void
    {
        $this->migrate('user');
    }
}
```

3. After migration

Check if your db structure is different from the doctrine schema. If it does then create another migration or merge with the previous one.
```
bin/console doctrine:schema:update --dump-sql
bin/console doctrine:migration:diff
```

Commit message:

#rename-pgsql-uuid-field: tmpUuidField param for migrate method

README.md, after:

# id-to-uuid

Easily migrate from an auto incremented integer id to a [uuid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) in a project using [DoctrineMigrationsBundle](https://github.com/doctrine/DoctrineMigrationsBundle).
Autodetect your foreign keys and update them. Supported databases: **MySQL, Postgres**.

## Installation

```
composer require cap-collectif/id-to-uuid
# install for postgres support
composer require ramsey/uuid
```

## Usage

1. Update your `id` column from `integer` to `guid`:

```diff
# User.orm.xml
<entity name="AppBundle\Entity\User" table="user">
---    <id name="id" column="id" type="integer">
---        <generator strategy="AUTO" />
+++    <id name="id" column="id" type="guid">
+++        <generator strategy="UUID" />
    </id>
 #...
</entity>
```

Alternatively you can use [uuid-doctrine](https://github.com/ramsey/uuid-doctrine) to add `uuid` type support.
```diff
<id name="id" type="uuid" />
```

2. Add a new migration:

```php
// app/DoctrineMigrations/VersionXYZ.php
<?php

namespace Application\Migrations;

use Doctrine\DBAL\Schema\Schema;
use CapCollectif\IdToUuid\IdToUuidMigration;

class VersionXYZ extends IdToUuidMigration //or PostgresIdToUuidMigration
{
    public function postUp(Schema $schema): void
    {
        $this->migrate('user');
    }
}
```

Alternatively you can specify second parameter to `migrate` method - custom temporary uuid field name

3. After migration

Check if your db structure is different from the doctrine schema. If it does then create another migration or merge with the previous one.
```
bin/console doctrine:schema:update --dump-sql
bin/console doctrine:migration:diff
```
